README.md, before:

# ArtikCloudSwift
![Supported Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/Swift-4.0-green.svg)
![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg)
![CocoaPods](https://img.shields.io/badge/CocoaPods-1.1-green.svg)
![Platforms](https://img.shields.io/badge/platforms-macOS%20%7C%20iOS%20%7C%20watchOS%20%7C%20tvOS-lightgrey.svg)

This SDK helps you connect your iOS, tvOS, watchOS, and macOS applications to ARTIK cloud services. It exposes a number of methods to easily execute REST and WebSockets calls to ARTIK cloud services.

## Specifications

Connect with ARTIK cloud services and handle its response asynchronously. 
```swift
DevicesAPI.get(id: "example-id").done { device in
    if device.isSharable() {
        device.share(email: "email@example.com").catch { error in
            print(error)
        }
    } else {
        device.removeFromArtik().done {
            print("We couldn't share the device, so it was removed.")
        }.catch { error in
            print(error)
        }
    }
}.catch { error in
    print(error)
}
```

## Prerequisites

- [Alamofire](https://github.com/Alamofire/Alamofire) >= 4.7.1
- [PromiseKit](https://github.com/mxcl/PromiseKit) >= 6.2.3
- [ObjectMapper](https://github.com/Hearst-DD/ObjectMapper) >= 3.1.0
- [CryptoSwift](https://github.com/krzyzanowskim/CryptoSwift) >= 0.9.0
- [Starscream](https://github.com/daltoniam/Starscream) >= 3.0.5

## Installation

### CocoaPods

[CocoaPods 1.1](https://guides.cocoapods.org/using/getting-started.html) or higher is required. 

Specify `ArtikCloudSwift` in your `PodFile` using one of the following:

```ruby
source 'https://github.com/CocoaPods/Specs.git'
pod 'ArtikCloudSwift'
```

Then run the following command:
```
pod install
```

### Manual installation

Drop `ArtikCloudSwift.xcodeproj` into your project and add `ArtikCloudSwift.framework` to your application's embedded frameworks.

## Getting Started

```swift
import ArtikCloudSwift
```

### Application setup

Before you begin making requests, provide the client ID and redirect URI of your application.
```swift
ArtikCloudSwiftSettings.clientID = "my-clientid"
ArtikCloudSwiftSettings.redirectURI = "my-uri://"
``` 
To learn how to create an application on ARTIK cloud services and obtain its client ID (application ID) and redirect URI, read our [documentation](https://developer.artik.cloud/documentation/tools/web-tools.html#creating-an-application).

### Authentication

API calls require authentication, and you must obtain a `Token` through any of the available [authentication flows](https://developer.artik.cloud/documentation/user-management/authentication.html). These flows are implemented in `AuthenticationAPI`. This [How To guide](https://developer.artik.cloud/documentation/tutorials/how-to/choose-oauth2-method.html) describes how to choose the best authentication flow for your use case.

Once you have obtained a `Token`, set it using one of the following methods:
```swift
ArtikCloudSwiftSettings.setUserToken(_ token: UserToken)
ArtikCloudSwiftSettings.setApplicationToken(_ token: ApplicationToken)
ArtikCloudSwiftSettings.setDeviceToken(_ token: DeviceToken)
```
Each time a token is used, its validity is verified locally (if possible). For a `UserToken` that has expired, the framework will attempt to refresh it with ARTIK cloud services before executing the request. This can be disabled by setting `ArtikCloudSwiftSettings.attemptToRefreshToken = false`.

### Using multiple token types

If you plan on using multiple `Token` types for different requests, you can set `preferredTokenForRequests` to a certain `Token.Type`. The framework will first attempt to use this token type before falling back on other types if unavailable. For example, to prioritize the current `ApplicationToken`:
```swift
ArtikCloudSwiftSettings.preferredTokenForRequests = ApplicationToken.self
```

### Handling callbacks

When using certain APIs, ARTIK cloud services will attempt a callback to your application, such as when using the [Authorization Code](https://developer.artik.cloud/documentation/user-management/authentication.html#authorization-code-method) authentication flow or upgrading a device type for [Monetization](https://developer.artik.cloud/documentation/monetization.html). For this to work, first make sure that the redirect URI of your application (server-side), your URL scheme (client-side), and `ArtikCloudSwiftSettings.redirectURI` are set to the same value.

Once your application receives a callback, identify which flow it is targeting by passing the `URL` to `ArtikCloudSwiftSettings.identifyRedirectEndpoint(_ callback: URL)`. Use the `RedirectEndpoint` value returned to determine how to process it.

```swift
// iOS Example
func application(_ application: UIApplication, open url: URL, sourceApplication: String?, annotation: Any) -> Bool {
    if let endpoint = ArtikCloudSwiftSettings.identifyRedirectEndpoint(url) {
        switch endpoint {
        case .cloudAuthorization:
            // User was authorizing a Cloud Connector
        case .monetization:
            // User has attempted to upgrade a device
            do {
                if try MonetizationAPI.processUpgradeCallback(url) == .accepted {
                	// Device was upgraded!
                }
            } catch {
                // Unable to determine upgrade result
            }
        case .logout:
            // User has logged out
        default:
            // Default Callback, used for Authentication flows
            
            // Using Authorization Code + PKCE for example...
            AuthenticationAPI.processAuthorizationCodeCallback(url, usingPKCE: true).done { token in
                // We got a Token!
            }.catch { error -> Void in
                // Something went wrong...
            }
        }
    }
    return true
}
```

### ArtikCloudSwiftDelegate

You can set `ArtikCloudSwiftSettings.delegate` to stay informed of various usage-related data. All methods are optional.
<br><br>
```swift
func maxPayload(_ size: UInt64)
```
*Called every time a response is received specifying the API's maximum accepted payload size.*
<br><br>
```swift
func rateLimit(_ rate: APIRateLimit)
```
*Called after an API is used, informing you of the current state of your rate limit.*
<br><br>
```swift
func organizationQuota(_ quota: APIOrganizationQuota)
```
*Called after an API is used, informing you of your remaining organization quota.*
<br><br>
```swift
func deviceQuota(_ quota: APIDeviceQuota)
```
*Called after an API is used counting towards a device's quota.*
<br><br>
```swift
func tokenRefreshed(_ token: UserToken)
```
*Called each time the current `UserToken` has been refreshed. Use this method to save the newly refreshed token if needed.*
<br><br>

### WebSockets

ARTIK cloud services' WebSockets are easily accesible using their respective implementations: `EventsWebsocket`, `LiveWebsocket`, and `DeviceWebsocket`. Once initialized, use `.connect()` and `.disconnect()` to initiate or terminate their connections. You can also make use of their delegates to react to any of their connection events, messages, etc.  
_NOTE: Websocket features are not available on watchOS at this time (missing access to CFNetwork String constants)._

#### ArtikWebsocketDelegate (implemented by all delegates below)
```swift
func websocketDidConnect(socket: ArtikWebsocket)
```
*Called when the socket has successfuly established a connection.*
<br><br>
```swift
func websocketDidDisconnect(socket: ArtikWebsocket, reconnecting: Bool, error: Error?)
```
*Called when the socket has been disconnected, indicating if it was due to an error and if it is attempting to reconnect.*
<br><br>
```swift
func websocketEncounteredError(socket: ArtikWebsocket, error: Error)
```
*Called when an error occured while performing an operation.*

#### EventsWebsocketDelegate
```swift
func websocketDidReceiveEvent(socket: EventsWebsocket, event: EventsWebsocket.EventType, uid: String?, aid: String?, did: String?, dtid: String?, ts: ArtikTimestamp)
```
*Called when the socket receives an event.*

#### LiveWebsocketDelegate
```swift
func websocketDidReceiveMessage(socket: LiveWebsocket, mid: String, data: [String:Any], sdid: String, sdtid: String?, uid: String?, ts: ArtikTimestamp)
```
*Called when the socket receives a message.*

#### DeviceWebsocketDelegate
```swift
func websocketDidReceiveAction(socket: DeviceWebsocket, mid: String, data: [String:Any], ddid: String)
```
*Called when the socket receives an action for a device.*

## API documentation

Markup documentation is available for all API methods in their [respective source files](https://github.com/artikcloud/artikcloud-swift/tree/master/Source). 

You can also refer to our documentation.

### REST
- [Users](https://developer.artik.cloud/documentation/api-reference/rest-api.html#users)
- [Devices](https://developer.artik.cloud/documentation/api-reference/rest-api.html#devices)
- [Device Types](https://developer.artik.cloud/documentation/api-reference/rest-api.html#device-types)
- [Messages](https://developer.artik.cloud/documentation/api-reference/rest-api.html#messages)
- [Monetization](https://developer.artik.cloud/documentation/api-reference/rest-api.html#monetization)
- [Subscriptions](https://developer.artik.cloud/documentation/api-reference/rest-api.html#subscriptions)
- [Notifications](https://developer.artik.cloud/documentation/api-reference/rest-api.html#notifications)
- [Rules](https://developer.artik.cloud/documentation/api-reference/rest-api.html#rules)
- [Scenes](https://developer.artik.cloud/documentation/api-reference/rest-api.html#scenes)
- [Machine Learning](https://developer.artik.cloud/documentation/api-reference/rest-api.html#machine-learning)
- [Device Management](https://developer.artik.cloud/documentation/api-reference/rest-api.html#device-management)

### WebSockets
- [Events](https://developer.artik.cloud/documentation/api-reference/websockets-api.html#event-feed-websocket)
- [Live (Firehose)](https://developer.artik.cloud/documentation/api-reference/websockets-api.html#firehose-websocket)
- [Device](https://developer.artik.cloud/documentation/api-reference/websockets-api.html#device-channel-websocket)

## More about ARTIK Cloud

If you are not familiar with ARTIK cloud services, we have extensive documentation at https://developer.artik.cloud/documentation

The full ARTIK cloud services API specification can be found at https://developer.artik.cloud/documentation/api-reference/

Check out advanced sample applications at https://developer.artik.cloud/documentation/tutorials/code-samples/

To create and manage your services and devices on ARTIK cloud services, create an account at https://developer.artik.cloud

Also see the ARTIK cloud services blog for tutorials, updates, and more: http://artik.io/blog/cloud

## Licence and Copyright

Licensed under the Apache License. See [LICENSE](https://github.com/artikcloud/artikcloud-swift/blob/master/LICENSE).

Copyright © 2017-2018 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.

Commit message:

Swift 4.2, Xcode 10, Rate Limit Recovery, and breaking changes

README.md, after:

# ArtikCloudSwift
![Supported Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/Swift-4.2-green.svg)
![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg)
![CocoaPods](https://img.shields.io/badge/CocoaPods-1.5.3-green.svg)
![Platforms](https://img.shields.io/badge/platforms-macOS%20%7C%20iOS%20%7C%20watchOS%20%7C%20tvOS-lightgrey.svg)

This SDK helps you connect your iOS, tvOS, watchOS, and macOS applications to ARTIK cloud services. It exposes a number of methods to easily execute REST and WebSockets calls to ARTIK cloud services.

## Specifications

Connect with ARTIK cloud services and handle its response asynchronously. 
```swift
DevicesAPI.get(id: "example-id").done { device in
    if device.isSharable() {
        device.share(email: "email@example.com").catch { error in
            print(error)
        }
    } else {
        device.removeFromArtik().done {
            print("We couldn't share the device, so it was removed.")
        }.catch { error in
            print(error)
        }
    }
}.catch { error in
    print(error)
}
```

## Prerequisites

- [Alamofire](https://github.com/Alamofire/Alamofire) >= 4.7.3
- [PromiseKit](https://github.com/mxcl/PromiseKit) >= 6.5.1
- [ObjectMapper](https://github.com/Hearst-DD/ObjectMapper) >= 3.3.0
- [CryptoSwift](https://github.com/krzyzanowskim/CryptoSwift) >= 0.12.0
- [Starscream](https://github.com/daltoniam/Starscream) >= 3.0.6

## Installation

### CocoaPods

[CocoaPods 1.1](https://guides.cocoapods.org/using/getting-started.html) or higher is required. 

Specify `ArtikCloudSwift` in your `PodFile` using one of the following:

```ruby
source 'https://github.com/CocoaPods/Specs.git'
pod 'ArtikCloudSwift'
```

Then run the following command:
```
pod install
```

### Manual installation

Drop `ArtikCloudSwift.xcodeproj` into your project and add `ArtikCloudSwift.framework` to your application's embedded frameworks.

## Getting Started

```swift
import ArtikCloudSwift
```

### Application setup

Before you begin making requests, provide the client ID and redirect URI of your application.
```swift
ArtikCloudSwiftSettings.clientID = "my-clientid"
ArtikCloudSwiftSettings.redirectURI = "my-uri://"
``` 
To learn how to create an application on ARTIK cloud services and obtain its client ID (application ID) and redirect URI, read our [documentation](https://developer.artik.cloud/documentation/tools/web-tools.html#creating-an-application).

### Authentication

API calls require authentication, and you must obtain a `Token` through any of the available [authentication flows](https://developer.artik.cloud/documentation/user-management/authentication.html). These flows are implemented in `AuthenticationAPI`. This [How To guide](https://developer.artik.cloud/documentation/tutorials/how-to/choose-oauth2-method.html) describes how to choose the best authentication flow for your use case.

Once you have obtained a `Token`, set it using one of the following methods:
```swift
ArtikCloudSwiftSettings.setUserToken(_ token: UserToken)
ArtikCloudSwiftSettings.setApplicationToken(_ token: ApplicationToken)
ArtikCloudSwiftSettings.setDeviceToken(_ token: DeviceToken)
```
Each time a token is used, its validity is verified locally (if possible). For a `UserToken` that has expired, the framework will attempt to refresh it with ARTIK cloud services before executing the request. This can be disabled by setting `ArtikCloudSwiftSettings.attemptToRefreshToken = false`.

### Using multiple token types

If you plan on using multiple `Token` types for different requests, you can set `preferredTokenForRequests` to a certain `Token.Type`. The framework will first attempt to use this token type before falling back on other types if unavailable. For example, to prioritize the current `ApplicationToken`:
```swift
ArtikCloudSwiftSettings.preferredTokenForRequests = ApplicationToken.self
```

### Handling callbacks

When using certain APIs, ARTIK cloud services will attempt a callback to your application, such as when using the [Authorization Code](https://developer.artik.cloud/documentation/user-management/authentication.html#authorization-code-method) authentication flow or upgrading a device type for [Monetization](https://developer.artik.cloud/documentation/monetization.html). For this to work, first make sure that the redirect URI of your application (server-side), your URL scheme (client-side), and `ArtikCloudSwiftSettings.redirectURI` are set to the same value.

Once your application receives a callback, identify which flow it is targeting by passing the `URL` to `ArtikCloudSwiftSettings.identifyRedirectEndpoint(_ callback: URL)`. Use the `RedirectEndpoint` value returned to determine how to process it.

```swift
// iOS Example
func application(_ application: UIApplication, open url: URL, sourceApplication: String?, annotation: Any) -> Bool {
    if let endpoint = ArtikCloudSwiftSettings.identifyRedirectEndpoint(url) {
        switch endpoint {
        case .cloudAuthorization:
            // User was authorizing a Cloud Connector
        case .monetization:
            // User has attempted to upgrade a device
            do {
                if try MonetizationAPI.processUpgradeCallback(url) == .accepted {
                	// Device was upgraded!
                }
            } catch {
                // Unable to determine upgrade result
            }
        case .logout:
            // User has logged out
        default:
            // Default Callback, used for Authentication flows
            
            // Using Authorization Code + PKCE for example...
            AuthenticationAPI.processAuthorizationCodeCallback(url, usingPKCE: true).done { token in
                // We got a Token!
            }.catch { error -> Void in
                // Something went wrong...
            }
        }
    }
    return true
}
```

### Rate Limit Recovery

[Rate limiting](https://developer.artik.cloud/documentation/data-management/rate-limiting.html) is used by most endpoints on the platform, regardless of the type of authentication used, to prevent abuse of our services. When you reach a limit, you will have to wait for the specific time window to expire before you can try again. This framework will attempt to do this for you by waiting the required amount of time and re-attempting the request automatically. You can adjust the maximum amount of attempts and the maximum acceptable wait time for a window to expire using `ArtikCloudSwiftSettings`'s `rateLimitAttemptsCount` and `rateLimitAttemptsThreshold`. You can disable this feature by setting the maximum number of attempts to `0`. In the case where the framework fails to recover or this feature is disabled, an `ArtikError.rateLimit` will be thrown.

### ArtikCloudSwiftDelegate

You can set `ArtikCloudSwiftSettings.delegate` to stay informed of various usage-related data. All methods are optional.
<br><br>
```swift
func maxPayload(_ size: UInt64)
```
*Called every time a response is received specifying the API's maximum accepted payload size.*
<br><br>
```swift
func rateLimit(_ rate: APIRateLimit)
```
*Called after an API is used, informing you of the current state of your rate limit.*
<br><br>
```swift
func organizationQuota(_ quota: APIOrganizationQuota)
```
*Called after an API is used, informing you of your remaining organization quota.*
<br><br>
```swift
func deviceQuota(_ quota: APIDeviceQuota)
```
*Called after an API is used counting towards a device's quota.*
<br><br>
```swift
func tokenRefreshed(_ token: UserToken)
```
*Called each time the current `UserToken` has been refreshed. Use this method to save the newly refreshed token if needed.*
<br><br>

### WebSockets

ARTIK cloud services' WebSockets are easily accesible using their respective implementations: `EventsWebsocket`, `LiveWebsocket`, and `DeviceWebsocket`. Once initialized, use `.connect()` and `.disconnect()` to initiate or terminate their connections. You can also make use of their delegates to react to any of their connection events, messages, etc.  
_NOTE: Websocket features are not available on watchOS at this time (missing access to CFNetwork String constants)._

#### ArtikWebsocketDelegate (implemented by all delegates below)
```swift
func websocketDidConnect(socket: ArtikWebsocket)
```
*Called when the socket has successfuly established a connection.*
<br><br>
```swift
func websocketDidDisconnect(socket: ArtikWebsocket, reconnecting: Bool, error: Error?)
```
*Called when the socket has been disconnected, indicating if it was due to an error and if it is attempting to reconnect.*
<br><br>
```swift
func websocketEncounteredError(socket: ArtikWebsocket, error: Error)
```
*Called when an error occured while performing an operation.*

#### EventsWebsocketDelegate
```swift
func websocketDidReceiveEvent(socket: EventsWebsocket, event: EventsWebsocket.EventType, uid: String?, aid: String?, did: String?, dtid: String?, ts: ArtikTimestamp)
```
*Called when the socket receives an event.*

#### LiveWebsocketDelegate
```swift
func websocketDidReceiveMessage(socket: LiveWebsocket, mid: String, data: [String:Any], sdid: String, sdtid: String?, uid: String?, ts: ArtikTimestamp)
```
*Called when the socket receives a message.*

#### DeviceWebsocketDelegate
```swift
func websocketDidReceiveAction(socket: DeviceWebsocket, mid: String, data: [String:Any], ddid: String)
```
*Called when the socket receives an action for a device.*

## API documentation

Markup documentation is available for all API methods in their [respective source files](https://github.com/artikcloud/artikcloud-swift/tree/master/Source). 

You can also refer to our documentation.

### REST
- [Users](https://developer.artik.cloud/documentation/api-reference/rest-api.html#users)
- [Devices](https://developer.artik.cloud/documentation/api-reference/rest-api.html#devices)
- [Device Types](https://developer.artik.cloud/documentation/api-reference/rest-api.html#device-types)
- [Messages](https://developer.artik.cloud/documentation/api-reference/rest-api.html#messages)
- [Monetization](https://developer.artik.cloud/documentation/api-reference/rest-api.html#monetization)
- [Subscriptions](https://developer.artik.cloud/documentation/api-reference/rest-api.html#subscriptions)
- [Notifications](https://developer.artik.cloud/documentation/api-reference/rest-api.html#notifications)
- [Rules](https://developer.artik.cloud/documentation/api-reference/rest-api.html#rules)
- [Scenes](https://developer.artik.cloud/documentation/api-reference/rest-api.html#scenes)
- [Machine Learning](https://developer.artik.cloud/documentation/api-reference/rest-api.html#machine-learning)
- [Device Management](https://developer.artik.cloud/documentation/api-reference/rest-api.html#device-management)

### WebSockets
- [Events](https://developer.artik.cloud/documentation/api-reference/websockets-api.html#event-feed-websocket)
- [Live (Firehose)](https://developer.artik.cloud/documentation/api-reference/websockets-api.html#firehose-websocket)
- [Device](https://developer.artik.cloud/documentation/api-reference/websockets-api.html#device-channel-websocket)

## More about ARTIK Cloud

If you are not familiar with ARTIK cloud services, we have extensive documentation at https://developer.artik.cloud/documentation

The full ARTIK cloud services API specification can be found at https://developer.artik.cloud/documentation/api-reference/

Check out advanced sample applications at https://developer.artik.cloud/documentation/tutorials/code-samples/

To create and manage your services and devices on ARTIK cloud services, create an account at https://developer.artik.cloud

Also see the ARTIK cloud services blog for tutorials, updates, and more: http://artik.io/blog/cloud

## Licence and Copyright

Licensed under the Apache License. See [LICENSE](https://github.com/artikcloud/artikcloud-swift/blob/master/LICENSE).

Copyright © 2017-2018 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
